How does s3 stores the data?
S3 is an object storage service, which allows to store the data in storage buckets. Storage buckets are similar to folders of a FileSystem used for organizing and storing the group of related data. S3 is an flat storage model, a bucket is logical name that prepends to the filename, there is nothing existing in physical called an bucket

we can control the access to the storage bucket and their objects in 2 ways
1. acl
2. policies

we can build the acls or policies at 2 levels
1. bucket level
2. object level

What is the difference between EFS and S3?
1. EFS has to be mounted on to an ec2 instance in order to store files/folders into it, where as an S3 is shared storage service where we can perform operations either using sdk or api
2. Programmer has to write complex logic in storing and organizing the data on EFS location, whereas we can store or access the data from S3 storage using simple api/sdks
3. EFS is suitable for backup or data migration across the ec2 instances or on-premise and ec2 as well. where as S3 is used for storing application data.
	
What are the storage classes supported in S3?
There are 7 storage classes are available in S3
The storage classes basically differs on these parameters
1. latency
2. throughput
3. durability
4. availability
5. cost

1. S3 Standard
S3 standard offers high durablility, availability and performance object storage, which can be used for frequent access of the data. It deliversy low-latency and high throughput in accessing the objects

2. S3 Intelligent-Tiering
When we are not certain about how the data is being used or access from the S3 storage bucket, then place the data in S3 Intelligent-Tiering. S3 automatically monitors the uage of the data based on which it moves the data across the storage classes for optimizing the cost

3. S3 Standard IA
S3 Standard IA (infrequent access)  is used for storing the data that is being access less-frequently. but we need durability, availability and low-latency then we need to use S3 Standard IA. The price of storing the data per GB is very less when compared with standard

4. S3 One-Zone IA
If the data is less frequently access, then we can place the data in one AZ only which lowers the cost of storage upto 20% when compared with S3 StandardIA. durability is not guaranteed.
	
5. S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval
Glacier is an archival storage service where the data is stored on magnetic tapes.
It is used for storing long-lived data that is rarely accessed and lowest-cost of storage. We can save upto 80% of storage cost in storing the data

6. S3 Glacier Deep Archive
durable across multiple availability zones, lowest-cost storage option. suitable for storing the data alternate to magnetic tapes. Retrival of the data takes 12 hours

7. S3 outposts
Instead of storing the data on cloud, we can store the data on on-premise servers of your organization using S3 outposts





	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	