AWS Service scope
AWS Service scopes refers to the a resource or service of a AWS is entitled for which level and the manageability aspect of the service. There are 3 scopes are there in aws cloud platform.
1. global
2. regional
3. availability zone

1. global scope
the service is created and accessible across all the regions of the cloud infrastructure platform.
- Route53
- AWS Cloud Front
- IAM registry

2. Regional scope
The service is created to the region level and is accesible and manageable within the region.
- DynamoDB
- Elastic LoadBalancer
- S3 Bucket
- Virtual Private Cloud Network

3. Availabiblity Zone
These services are created per AZ 
- Elastic Block Storage 
- EC2 instance
- Subnet
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#network domain

#compute domain
ec2 instance
ec2 stands for elastic cloud compute, which is nothing but an machine/computer created on the aws cloud platform 

#provisoning = The process of creating an resource on a cloud platform is called provisioning.
	
How to launch an ec2 instance on aws cloud platform?
#1. goto services choose compute and navigate into ec2
#2. click on launch instance
#3. we need to provide the details in creating the ec2 instance
	3.1 provide name for the instance (for eg.. javainstance)
	3.2 choose the AMI (amazon machine image) (operating system)
		- ubuntu family
		- 22.04 LTS (free tier)
	3.3 choose the shape of the instance (t2.micro only)	
	3.4 click on create keypair
		This generates an ssh keypair in accessing the ec2 instance
		3.4.1 enter the keypair name 
		3.4.2 choose the algorithm (default: RSA)
		3.4.3 choose type of keypair (default: pem)
		The pem file will be downloaded upon clicking on finish, place the ".pem" into $USER_HOME/.ssh directory
		
		upon creating the keypair choose the keypair name from the drop down which which we want to create the instance
	3.5 choose the default vpc, subnet and enable public ip address (everything is auto-selected, just cross-check and leave it to the default)
	3.6 scroll-down and click on launch
	
goto ec2->instances page and identify the instance we provisioned and copy the public ip address of the instance and use it for ssh into the computer	

How to connect to ec2 instance?
1. install gitbash on your machine
2. open gitbash
3. enter ssh command for connecting to the ec2 instance using public_ip and pem file as below.
	ssh -i ~/.ssh/javainstancekp.pem ubuntu@publicip
	
































	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	