Read capacity/ Write Capacity
The billing on DynamoDB takes place based on read/write units consumed. The DynamoDB is server-less so there is no computing capacity reservered for usage, so the only cost parameter that can be taken into consideration is based on usage of the database.
while is nothing the read/writes we perform on the DynamoDB

1. Read Unit
	- 2 eventual consistent reads of size 4kb is considered as one read unit
	- 1 strongly consistent read of size 4kb is considered as one read unit
if we read operation resulted in fetching the data more than 4kb more read units will be allocated

2. Write Unit
	- 1 write of an item upto 1 kb in size 
	- 1 transaction write upon an item of size 1kb is considered as 2 write units
if more data has been writen as part of the write, the more write units will be allocated

While creating the table in DynamoDB the ops/cloud engineer can allocate the read and write capacity units for a table 
For eg.. if we allocate 2 write capacity units and 4 read capacity units means
within a second for that table it allows
	2 write operations of 1kb in size
	1 transaction write of 1kb in size
	(or)
	4 write operations of 2kb in size
	2 strongly consitent read of 2kb in size 
are permitted on the table
if any thing beyond the capacity has been recieved, then DynamoDB blocks/keeps the requests under waiting for next interval

From the above we can understand choosing wisely the read/write capacity units are very important to allow operations to be performed on the table. DynamoDB allows us to allocate read/write capacity on table in 2 modes

1. provisioned
2. ondemand

1. provisioned
the cloud engineer is going to allocate fixed read/write capacity on table allowing to perform operations. the provisioned mode is the default mode under which a table will be created 

2. ondemand
aws will automatically scaleup/down the read/write capacity of a table based on the usage.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

















































