There are 7 services are there in storage domain
1. Elastic Block Storage (EBS)
2. Elastic FileSystem (EFS)
3. Simple Storage Service (S3)
4. CloudFront (CF)
5. Glacier
6. Storage Gateway
7. Snowball

5. Glacier
AWS Glacier is used for storing archival data at a much cheaper price which is almost 10x cheap than the S3 storage

The organizations has the data of different nature and has different access requirements, some data might be accessed very frequently (transaction data) which would be used for computing real-time operations. such data requires faster accessing / processing so that it would kept in 
1. rds service
2. no-sql service amazon dynamodb
3. s3 storage bucket if the data is in object nature

but there are other types of data, that is not being used actively for eg..
Banking/financial institutions has to store the transactional data about the account holders and the operations they have performed. The data that is generated by the enduser through operations should be kept available to the customer for access to an certain amount of time (6 months or 12 months sla) aspart the RBI or Government regulations. There after the data cannot be removed permanently, but the data need not be made available for customers for usage, but should kept stored in the system for an sla interval of 10/20 years for compliance and regulations. This type of data that is stored but not actively used is called "archival data".
	
If we store the archieval data in rds, amazon dynamodb or S3, the cost of storage is going to be very high and over the period of time the data grows to petabytes which increases the cost of storage. since this data is almost never going to be used after the initial sla time, instead of storing in databases, we can store them in tapes at a cheaper price, which is nothing but AWS Glacier

Features:-
1. cheapest cost
2. durability
3. secured
4. infinite storage capacity
5. region specific cost

How to store the data in Glacier?
Glacier stores the data interms of objects similar to S3 storage like
1. audio
2. video
3. images
4. documents
5. files etc
upon storing each object glacier generates an unique id which can be used for retrieving the data. we can group all the related data by compressing into zip files and store in glacier so that we can retrieve it easily

In case if the data is stored in rds or dynamodb, aws cannot move the data directly from these services into glacier since the 2 worlds of data storage are different. The application developers has to write archievers and exporter programs in retriving the data from database and convert into archivable format (kind of file) and store into glacier using aws glacier apis

but when it comes to S3 storage, since the data in S3 is stored in object format, by configuring lifecycle policy on the bucket aws itself takes care of archiving the objects into glacier and retrieve back by moving them into S3 again when required.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	






















	
























