Cloud Platform
on-demand delivery of computing resources/services to the world is called "cloud computing"
	
What is a software application?
Software applications are written in a programming language, that contains set of instructions to be executed to meet the business requirements of the organization/owner
programming language
1. java
2. .net
3. python
4. php
5. ruby
6. scala

The software applications can be majorly categorized into 5 different types
1. standalone applications
2. distributed web applications
3. enterprise applications
4. mobile applications
5. batch-processing applications
depends on the type of the application we deliver the application to the enduser

#1. standalone application/desktop application
standalone applications are even called as desktop application or single user applications which are downloaded/installed and executed locally on a computer system.
1.1 Single user can use the application at onetime
1.2 They use the resources of the computer and execute locally
1.3 The user has to install the application software to use it.
	
#2. Distributed Web Applications
These applications are even called client-server technology applications.
The distributed web applications servers webpages or html pages over the network offering information or business service of an organization
The distributed web applications can be categorized into 2 types

1. static web applications
The static web applications comprises of only HTML/web content that will be served to the enduser. These applications are non-interactive and enduser cannot pass information as an input to perform operation. always the same data will be served to the enduser no matter how many times the user accessed
	
2. dynamic web applications
These are the applications that allows the enduser to interact by passing data as an input to them through HTML Forms, reads the data perform operation and returns response back to the user
To build dynamic webapplication we need a backend programming language
1. java
2. .net
3. php
4. python
5. perl
6. scala
7. ruby



































	