Hosting Providers
Hosting Providers provides shared hosting solutions to the small/moderate business vendors. In addition to the infrastructure the provide end-to-end hosting solutions.
1. platform software/application servers based on programming language
	- java: tomcat server or other equivalents
	- python: wsgi/asgi
	- php: lamp
	etc
2. shared database services (major: mysql/postgres)	
3. exchange servers (relay mail servers)
4. website building tools (zoomla, wordpress)
5. development tools
		- source code repositories (svn, git, wincvs)
		- project management tools (zoho, redmine)
6. office management tools
		- hrm (employee managment, leave management)
7. domain hosting tools

In addition to the above they provide control tools like
1. cpanel
2. WHM panel
etc

installation, configuration and upgradation of these platform, softwares are taken care by hosting provider.


advantages:-
	1. low investment cost in hosting an software application
	2. low maintainance, since monitoring, upgradation, patching the infra/software are taken care by hosting provider
	3. 24/7 technical support and customer service support will be provided
	4. 99.9% uptime is guaranteed on all the services

dis-advantages:-
	1. The hosting providers provides limited infrastructure only, with fixed cpu/ram and storage solutions, which is not suitable for enterprise applications
	2. The technology stack these providers offer are limited, so every application of any technology cannot be deployed or hosted on shared hosting provider
	3. less secured, as the infra is shared across the customers
	4. migrating from one vendor to another vendor is not possible or may have limited solutions/options
	5. we need to signup upfront contract in using the hosting provider solutions which will bind us to hosting provider
	6. no scaleup or scaleout options are available 

From the above we can understand hosting provider solutions are not suitable for enterprise class solutions, we need alternate

#3. Datacenter

	



















	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	




































		