#2. Database domain
There are 5 services under database domain

1. RDS (Relational database service)
RDS is not a database software product of AWS Cloud platform. There are lot of relational database management system softwares are available in the market like oracle, mysql server, postgres and db2 etc to use any of these database softwares on aws cloud platform, the cloud engineer has to take care of provisioning, scaling, backup and restoration of these products on cloud. instead aws has provided few of the popular database products as managed database services on aws cloud platform as PAAS services through RDS Service

For eg.. if wanted an oracle database to be used on aws cloud platform, we need to choose the database product and database configuration or parameters with which we wanted to have the database instance to RDS Service of aws cloud platform. It takes care of provisioning, managing the database cloud instance on the cloud platform.
	
2. Aurora db
Aurora database build by aws cloud platform on top of mysql server database. it is an relational database management system provided by amazon cloud. The Amazon cloud claims the aurora db is 5 times fater than the mysql server database interms of performance and data transfer rates

3. Dynamo db
It is an no-sql database management system built by amazon and provided as part of aws cloud platform. we can store petabytes of data in dynamo db and it is highly scalable

4. Elastic Cache
It is an distributed cache system provided by amazon cloud provider to implement server-side application caching

5. Redshift = database warehouse service used for processing and analyzing the data and generate reports
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What is a database management system, why do we need a database system?
A business always generates the data, the data that is generated by a business has to be kept/stored permanently for future usage for various different purpose.

How does the business can store the data permanently so that it can be used in future?
Write the data/store it on a booking keeping of records like ledger, sales book or petty cashbook etc. So that we can go through the records of data being written on the book for performing any operations.
There are several problems in keeping/storing the data on the physical medium like paper.
1. The information stored or written on a paper may not be legitimate and cannot be read/understood by other people
2. The paper has wear and tear and the data written on the paper might get fadded over the time and it is not permanent
3. accessing the data and searching the data is very difficult when we store the data on a book
4. in case if we have lost the book, there is no way to restore or recover it back
5. the information written on a book can be read by anyone who has access to it, so information is not secured

From the above we can understand storing the data on physical mediums like paper/books has lot of problems, since the business data has to be stored permanently for long interval of time we can store it on a computer system 

The computer systems allows us to permanently store the data on the storage devices like harddisk, pendrive, floppy and cd devices. These are called secondary storage devices or permanent storage devices of a computer system that allows us to store the data permanently

To organize and manage in storing the data on these devices FileSystem technics are introduced. We can store the data in a File and organize or group them using Folders for quick/faster access.
	
File = is an datastructure that holds the memory address location of the actual data where it has been stored on the harddisk of the computer. by locating the address location of the data through the file we can access the information we stored on a harddisk. Each file will be given an unique name through which we can access the file and the contents of data through it.
Folder = Folder is a group of related files kept together to quickly access them 

Now we can store the data on a computer system permanently using files/folders

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	























































































